Add Apache Iceberg blog post (#467)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2023-06-30-trino-fest-2023-apacheiceberg.md

---
layout: post
title: "CDC patterns in Apache Iceberg"
author: "Ryan Blue, Ryan Duan"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/ApacheIceberg.png
show_pagenav: false
---

Have you ever wanted to keep your data in a table and have an efficient way to
interact with them? Iceberg, an open standard table format, is

> exactly what you need. What makes Iceberg unique is its use of change data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exactly what you need. On of the great and unique features of the Iceberg tableformat is its support for of change data
```

> capture (CDC). Co-creator of Apache Iceberg, Ryan Blue, gave a talk at [Trino Fest 2023]({% post_url

Reviewer: ```suggestion
capture (CDC). Co-creator of Apache Iceberg, Ryan Blue, presented at [Trino Fest 2023]({% post_url
```

> 2023-06-20-trino-fest-2023-recap %}) this past week detailing the trade-offs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2023-06-20-trino-fest-2023-recap %}) this past week detailing the CDC support and the trade-offs
```

> between each pattern that can be used for writing CDC streams into Iceberg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
between different patterns that can be used for writing CDC streams into Iceberg
```

tables.

<!--more-->

{% youtube GM7EvRc7_is %}

<a class="btn btn-pink btn-md" target="_blank" href="/assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/TrinoFest2023Iceberg.pdf">
  Check out the slides!
</a>

## Recap

> To begin, what is CDC and why should you use it? CDC is the idea that relational

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin, what is CDC and why should you use it? CDC is the idea that when relational
```

> or transactional tables are modified, you emit an update stream to keep copies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or transactional tables are modified, you emit an update stream. This enables you to keep copies
```

> in sync so that you capture changes to tables as they happen. As Ryan states,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in sync by capturing changes to tables as they happen. As Ryan states,
```

"[CDC] is very lightweight on the source database ... rather than being super
careful with what we run on the database, what we want to do is just make a
copy of it very easily and maintain that copy." Ryan continues giving an
example of a bank using a transactional table in Iceberg to offer some
context on what's going on.

With this knowledge, you can see some problems that makes CDC difficult:

* Lower latency means more work
* Write amplification - the work necessary to balance the trade-off between
  efficiency at write time and efficiency at read time
* Batch writes with double update and possible inconsistency
* Read requirements with the different types of deletes in a table

With these types of problems, the importance of the trade-offs between the
different patterns rises due to the need for utmost efficiency. The first

> trade-off that Ryan talks about is the storage trade-offs between using direct

Reviewer 2: Need to decide whether this is singular or plural. "The first trade-off... is the trade-offs" doesn't work.

writes and a change log table, which is considered the most important and often
overlooked decision. The next trade-off is in regards to the MERGE pattern's
choice of lazy merge (merge-on-read) or eager merge (copy-on-write). In
addition, the commit frequency trade-off has different benefits depending if you

> prefer it to be faster or slower. The change log pattern and MERGE pattern both

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
prefer it to be faster or slower. The change log pattern and `MERGE` pattern both
```
Ticks will give it syntax highlighting.

---
layout: post
title: "CDC patterns in Apache Iceberg"
author: "Ryan Blue, Ryan Duan"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/ApacheIceberg.png
show_pagenav: false
---

> Have you ever needed to keep your data all in a table and an efficient way to

Reviewer: that sentence reads weirdly

> interact with them? Iceberg, an open standard for tables with SQL behavior, is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interact with them? Iceberg, an open standard table format, is
```

> exactly what you need. But what makes Iceberg unique is its use of change data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exactly what you need. What makes Iceberg unique is its use of change data
```

careful with what we run on the database, what we want to do is just make a
copy of it very easily and maintain that copy." Ryan continues giving an
example of a bank using a transactional table in Iceberg to offer some
context on what's going on.

With this knowledge, you can see some problems that makes CDC difficult:

* Lower latency means more work
* Write amplification - the work necessary to balance the trade-off between
  efficiency at write time and efficiency at read time
* Batch writes with double update and possible inconsistency
* Read requirements with the different types of deletes in a table

With these types of problems, the importance of the trade-offs between the
different patterns rises due to the need for utmost efficiency. The first
trade-off that Ryan talks about is the storage trade-offs between using direct
writes and a change log table, which is considered the most important and often
overlooked decision. The next trade-off is in regards to the MERGE pattern's
choice of lazy merge (merge-on-read) or eager merge (copy-on-write). In
addition, the commit frequency trade-off has different benefits depending if you

> prefer it to be faster or slower. The Flink UPSERT pattern is an update type

Reviewer: Remove the Flink stuff

trade-off, but is not recommended due to its many drawbacks. The change log
pattern and MERGE pattern both have benefits you may want, so Ryan suggests
using a hybrid version of both that may give you what you want from both
patterns. All of these different options create numerous variations depending on
what you prefer.

> 

Reviewer: Do we need some sort of "watch the video and slides for more details" @colebow  .. I kinda of think maybe yes.. but also maybe not .. 

How about just a final closure sentence?

Reviewer: Maybe something like

He mentions that with Iceberg you have the choice and the different CDC patterns can be supported and you can adjust your usage to your specific needs. Watch the video and review the slides for more details.
